So we talked about hydration
is being workaround, and
I wanna really just kind of deep dive down
on what kind of a crazy workaround it is.
So, at the beginning we had HTML and
we literally rendered a white page.
There was nothing on it, right?
And then we downloaded JavaScript,
and then JavaScript would then execute
the application, and the application
would cause the rendering of the page,
and then we would actually have the page.
And it's at this point that the page
would become interactive, right?
And this was kind of ten years ago,
if you look at how all of these frameworks
worked before we had server-side
rendering, right, this was the story.
And so people said this is great but
it is a horrible user experience that
I have to look at a blank screen.
So, let's do server-side pre-rendering.
Once you do server-side pre-rendering,
the HTML your shipping is actually bigger,
right?
And so now you get to see the page,
but you can't interact with it.
This is basically
a picture of what you want,
not the actual thing that you want,
so it appears faster.
So that's a win, but
you still have to download the JavaScript.
You have to execute the JavaScript.
And now we are gonna use
a fancy term reconcile, but
it's really just a render, right?
We literally did everything we had,
and now at this point,
we have the same exact thing.
So if you think about what
had just happened here,
we threw this away and
we replaced it with the same exact thing.
And the reason why, you use the fancy word
reconcile is because instead of throwing
it away, we try to reuse DOM elements.
Try being the operative word because if
the DOM doesn't really fit what we want,
we just rearrange things.
And this actually happens.
It turns out a lot of things that
frameworks do will put, for example,
a div inside of a button or
a div inside of a paragraph turns out
that's not allowed in HTML, and
HTML will rearrange things on you.
And then when the framework wakes up
it just puts it back the way it was.
So really this is a best case effort here.
Anyways, so the fact that we are reusing
the DOM elements is basically what
the reconciliation comes in.
But notice what happened this is
the point where we can be interactive.
And so we actually got slower.
And this is kind of strange,
don't you think?
We wanted to be faster so
we server-side pre-render, but
we actually ended up being slower.
And the reason for
this is because there's duplication.
We are sending the same information twice,
once in the form of HTML.
And then again, the same exact
information form of JavaScript.
And I really wanna stress this
because if I was to delete this,
HTML here or send a completely
wrong HTML at this point.
I would still end up in here, right?
And so the JavaScript contains all of
the information to render the page even
though we already have it rendered, right?
And that's because historically
this is how we got here.
We got here from this world of, hey,
we do everything on the client and
server-side rendering or
the pre-rendering as it's called,
right, is just a horrible workaround
that it's kind of what it is.
And this is why hydration is so slow
because hydration doesn't do anything,
right, it assumes blank page and
does everything and yet
it tries to reuse DOM elements.
And some frameworks are better at
it than others, so for example,
SolidJS tries to remove
a lot of the duplication.
And so in the case of something like
SolidJS, it's actually not possible to
have a completely wrong HTML here
it relies on many bits here.
But fundamentally, that's the kind
of mental model that we have.
And that results in basically
slow websites, right?
Pick a website you want,
and you'll basically discover that the
performance is not as good as you want.
So let's look at reasonability,
how reasonability is different.
So the above is basically
what's happening today.
We kind of talked about
it in the previous slide.
So we also start with HTML and
it's about the same size because, well,
we have to render the same exact page and
so we get over here.
What's different here is that this HTML
includes a tiny bootstrap, which is about
a kilobyte in size, piece of JavaScript,
that's actually inlined in the HTML.
And that one kilobyte is fixed, it doesn't
get bigger no matter how complicated your
website gets, it's like it's a fixed
amount of cost that you pay.
And because it's one kilobyte, we actually
inline it into the HTML because we
don't think it's worth making
another stupid request for.
And what it means is that the page
is interactive at this point.
If I click at this point, I am guaranteed
that the click will be processed.
Now, if I click over here,
the click won't be processed it
will just be dropped, right?
So here you click on something and
you're, well, what's going on here?
Did I click too early or
is the code not ready or what's going on?
And you might have to
click multiple times.
Whereas here, the moment you click,
you're guaranteed that eventually
will be processed, yes?
>> There's kind of an assumption built
into when you say interactive and
that's that it's JavaScript listener-
>> Yes.
>> That's processing the click.
Your semantic anchors, your CSS
only hover states things like that,
that still would be active theoretically.
And so
I guess the differentiation here is still,
I guess you're talking
about JavaScript only.
>> Yes, JavaScript interactivity.
I'm talking about that in here when I
click on a button, I am guaranteed that
that button will be processed, now-
>> But anchors, you could click on a link.
>> Those things that do
not require JavaScript,
they would work obviously immediately,
yes.
>> Cool just wanted to clarify
>> Yeah, no, that's a good clarification.
Now when I say is that it's
guaranteed to be processed,
now at this point we haven't yet
downloaded the JavaScript.
So, depending whether JavaScript is in
the cache or not, and we can go much
deeper into that whole prefetching
business, it is definitely faster.
And then the next thing we have to do
is we have to download the JavaScript.
And if you click before the JavaScript is
downloaded, then you may have to wait for
JavaScript to download.
If you click after
the JavaScript is downloaded,
your interaction is instant, right?
But notice you couldn't
even click at this point.
You had to wait all the way over here,
right?
Whereas here, if you click here, you might
have to wait a little bit, but if you
click over here which would be equivalent
to here, you're already way ahead.
And so you say, Misko,
but you're cheating.
What happened to this box over here,
right?
Well, that box is the duplication
that I removed, right?
So here the thing we did,
the reason why the amount of
JavaScript we're downloading is so
much smaller is because all of
the bits that got duplicated when
we generate the HTML is unneeded.
And so worst case scenario is that
the amount of JavaScript here is equal to
JavaScript over here.
That's the worst case scenario, right?
But in practice that never happens and
the amount of JavaScript you have is way,
way smaller.
The worst case scenario of being
the same amount of JavaScript means that
it is at this point where you are fully
interactive with zero delay, right?
This is the worst case scenario for us,
probably will be even better than that.
And even before the Java screen shows up,
you already are guaranteed that if you
click on something,
the event will eventually be processed.
So even in the worst case scenario,
which is right here,
we are way better than what you
can possibly do with hydration,
because we skip execution and
reconciliation.
And you say,
well what happened to these two parts?
And so these two parts are skipped
because of something called resumability.
And if you think about it,
we cannot even do hydration at this point,
even if we wanted to.
Because hydration requires that we start
at the root component and we go and
visit all the components and
collect information about the system.
But guess what,
huge amount of these components were
never downloaded to the client.
So even if we wanted to do hydration,
we cannot,
because the actual code is not present.
We don't have the JavaScript to be able to
even do hydration even if we wanted to.
Okay, and
removing this duplication is really
the biggest win that we can have, yes.
>> If quick adds listeners and
state to the JSON.
Would it have a problem with the kind
of JSON bloating up kind of next?
What happens with next?
>> Yes, the question is because
we serialize the state, right,
to the JSON, will there become a problem
for the start up of the application?
Yes, the more complicated the page is,
the more JSON you're gonna have, right,
there's no way around it.
But, couple of things, first of all
you will never have more JSON than you
would have in the case of Next.js, right?
So Next.js would be the worst
case scenario for us, right?
So the industry standard for
us is a worst case scenario.
There are many times when the data would
never actually have to be shipped,
which as I kind of pointed out earlier.
If we discover that a particular data
is not editable, then we know it,
don't even ship it.
So for example, one demo I have is
we do hack and use, and hack and
use has all the data that shows
all the comments that people make.
None of those comments actually
gets serialized into the JSON,
because they're not editable.
There's nothing you can do as a user
in the UI that would cause you to
rerender any of these components.
And because the components cannot
rerender, why are you shipping the data
for something that can't
possibly rerender, right?
So in most cases, we can actually
throw away most of the data.
The second point to make is that this
data is at the bottom of the HTML.
So as soon as the HTML shows up,
you see everything, right?
Now, you might have to wait if you click
on something before you see you might
still have to wait for the HTML to finish
downloading because there's bits below it.
But you would have to wait for
that anyways in the other cases, right?
So basically the worst case of
quick is the normal case for
the other systems is
what it comes down to.
And in many cases we can do a lot better,
so hopefully that answers the question.
>> Yeah, so in other words,
next we'll ship the state for
things that can't be edited anyway
>> Correct and the other
thing to kind of point out is, when your
app gets super large, we do have this idea
of the micro-frontends where you can break
your application into multiple containers.
And these containers would allow you
to kind of break the problem into
smaller chunks.
But those are super advanced use cases.
In most cases,
you just won't even have to get there.
I'm wanna show you what this
actually looks like in practice.
So on the right-hand side, this is our
homepage and we redid this homepage.
Originally, it was in Next.js.
And then when we did it in Quick,
the right hand side, and
the thing to kind of notice is just
how quickly the page goes gray, right?
The moment the HTML shows up, we render
everything and it immediately goes gray.
And then the other side shows up later and
you say, well, wait a minute,
they're both server side rendered.
How come we're faster on the Quick side?
Well because Quick can
do an interesting trick.
Quick can not ship
the HTML below the fold.
So the reason why the right hand
side is actually even faster for
the HTML is because we don't actually
even ship the HTML below the fold.
Is only when you start scrolling
actually the HTML show up.
And these are kind of the users cases
that become trivial to do once you have
resumeability.
Because if something
isn't interacted with,
we don't even care whether
the HTML's present or not.
I mean, if you later put the HTML there
because HTML is the source of the truth,
we can just resume it later
on when it shows up ,right?
Something that you can't even
do with existing frameworks,
once hydration happens,
everything has to be present.
You can't just have part of the page.
And so that's kind of the reason
why that's faster, yes?
>> So you said you don't even
ship the HTML is below the fold.
My question is,
my tendency would be wanting to
eagerly prefetch
>> Yes
>> Things that are one click away or
one scroll action away.
Can you decide?
>> Yes, so this all comes to the business
of how do you make sure you eagerly
start fetching data?
And there's a whole separate
deep dive we can do it with it.
Yes, obviously we prefetch
all these things, right?
So what's actually happening
is that HTML shows up,
the page is kind of finished, and
in the background there's a service worker
that starts doing all of these things.